# Existing API Discussion 
* The Java collections api is generally easy to use because the methods themselves are well-named, allowing a user that has very little knowledge of the actual implementation to be able to use the methods successfully. 
* Mistakes are generally easy to avoid. IDE's work well with the API to give the user helpful information about each method they are attempting to use. In addition, the methods themselves are specific in their functionality and intuitive when paired with their names.
* For example, linked list uses two interfaces: list and deque. We expect the list interface is used to maintain the data in the linked list in a similar way to how we imagine lists maintaining data. In addition, the deque interface is probably used to implement the linking and ordering aspects of a linked list.
* There are 3 implementations of set. As long as the number of implementations is greater than 1, an interface can be justified as it improves clutter in the code, readability, and scalability for things that could be potentially added in the future.
* Most concrete classes have around 3 or 4 levels of superclasses that become more specific, starting from Object and arriving at the specific subclass of the concrete object. For example, linked list is a member of Object, AbstractCollection (this object has the characteristics of a collection), AbstractList (this collection is specifically going to be a list), and AbstractSequentialList (this is a list where we care about ordering).
* Utility classses allow for specific implementations to remain very specific while still having the commonality we expect with the use of inheritance structures. 